###################
1.10.0 (2018-11-03)
###################

* New dependency: `django-object-actions <https://github.com/crccheck/django-object-actions>`_.
* Add ability to resign existing certificates.
* Management command ``list_cas`` now optionally supports a tree view.
* Use more consistent naming for extensions throughout the code and documentation.
* Renamed the ``--tls-features`` option of the ``sign_cert`` command to ``--tls-feature``, in line with the
  actual name of the extension.
* Allow the ``TLSFeature`` extension in profiles.
* Add link in the admin interface to easily download certificate bundles.
* Support ECC private keys for new Certificate Authorities.
* Store CA private keys in the more secure `PKCS8 format
  <https://cryptography.io/en/latest/hazmat/primitives/asymmetric/serialization/#cryptography.hazmat.primitives.serialization.PrivateFormat.PKCS8>`_.
* The Certificate change view now has a second "Revoke" button as object action next to the "History" button.

**********
Python API
**********

* Add the :doc:`Python API </python/intro>` as a fully supported interface to **django-ca**.
* New module ``django_ca.extensions`` to allow easy and consistent handling of X509 extensions.
* Fully document various member attributes of :py:class:`~django_ca.models.CertificateAuthority` and
  :py:class:`~django_ca.models.Certificate`, as well ``django_ca.subject.Subject`` and as all new Python code.
* The parameters for functions in :py:class:`~django_ca.managers.CertificateManager` and
  :py:meth:`~django_ca.managers.CertificateAuthorityManager.init` were cleaned up for consistent naming and so
  that a user no longer needs to use classes from the cryptography library. Parameters are now optional if
  default settings exist.
* Variable names have been renamed to be more consistent to make the code more readable.

*******
Testing
*******

* Also test with Python 3.7.0.
* Add configuration for `tox <https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_.
* Speed up test-suite by using :py:meth:`~django:django.test.Client.force_login` and
  `PASSWORD_HASHERS <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/testing/overview/#password-hashing>`_.
* Load keys and certs in for every test case instead for every class, improving test case isolation.
* Add two certificates that include all and no extensions at all respectively to be able to test edge cases
  more consistently and thoroughly.
* Add function ``cmd_e2e`` to call :command:`manage.py` scripts in a way that arguments are passed by argparse
  as if they where called from the command-line. This allows more complete testing including parsing
  command-line arguments.
* Error on any :py:mod:`python:warnings` coming from django-ca when running the test-suite.
