###################
1.11.0 (2018-12-29)
###################

* Remove colons from CA private keys (fixes `#29 <https://github.com/mathiasertl/django-ca/issues/28>`_).
* Filenames for downloading certificates are based on the CommonName (fixes
  `#53 <https://github.com/mathiasertl/django-ca/issues/53>`_).
* Fix certificate bundle order (fixes `#55 <https://github.com/mathiasertl/django-ca/issues/55>`_).
* Management commands ``dump_ca`` and ``dump_cert`` can now dump whole certificate bundles.
* New setting :ref:`CA_DEFAULT_KEY_SIZE <settings-ca-default-key-size>` to configure the default key size
  for new CAs.
* Fix display of the NameConstraints extension in the admin interface.
* Further optimize the Docker image size (~235MB -> ~140MB).

*******************
Deprecation Notices
*******************

This release will be the last release to support some software versions:

* This will be the last release that supports for Python 3.4
  (see `Status of Python branches <https://devguide.python.org/#status-of-python-branches>`_).
* This will be the last release that supports for Django 2.0
  (see `Supported Versions <https://www.djangoproject.com/download/#supported-versions>`_).
* This will be the last release that supports cryptography 2.1.

**********
Python API
**********

* **BACKWARDS INCOMPATIBLE:** Renamed the ``subjectAltName`` parameter of
  ``Certificate.objects.init()`` to ``subject_alternative_name`` to be consistent with other extensions.
* Document how to use the ``name_constraints`` parameter in
  :py:meth:`CertificateAuthority.objects.init() <django_ca.managers.CertificateAuthorityManager.init>`
* Extensions can now always be passed as ``django_ca.extensions.base.Extension`` subclass or as any
  value accepted by the constructor of the specific class.
* Add ability to add any custom additional extension using the ``extra_extensions`` parameter.
* ``django_ca.subject.Subject`` now implements every ``dict`` method.
* The ``~django_ca.signals.pre_issue_cert`` signal will now receive normalized values.
* The ``~django_ca.signals.pre_issue_cert`` signal is only invoked after all parameters are verified.
* Implement the ``django_ca.extensions.AuthorityInformationAccess``,
  ``django_ca.extensions.BasicConstraints``, ``django_ca.extensions.IssuerAlternativeName``,
  ``django_ca.extensions.SubjectAlternativeName`` and ``django_ca.extensions.NameConstraints`` extensions.

*******
Testing
*******

* Add cryptography 2.4.2 to the test-suite.
* Add the ``setup.py docker_test`` command to test the image using various alpine-based images.
* Test for certificates that are not yet valid.
* The child CA used for testing now contains more extensions.
* Freeze time in some test cases to avoid test failures when certificates eventually expire.
* Test some documentation pages, to make sure they are actually correct.
