##################
1.9.0 (2018-08-25)
##################

* Allow the creation of Certificates with multiple OUs in their subject (command-line only).
* Fix issues with handling CAs with a password on the command-line.
* Fix handling of certificates with no CommonName and/or no x509 extensions.
* Add support for displaying Signed Certificate Timestamps (SCT) Lists, as described in
  `RFC 6962, section 3.3 <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6962#section-3.3>`_.
* Add limited support for displaying Certificate Policies, as described in
  `RFC 5280, section 4.2.14 <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5280#section-4.2.1.4>`_ and
  `RFC 3647 <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3647>`_.
* Correctly display extensions with an OID unknown to django-ca or even cryptography.
* Properly escape x509 extensions to prevent any injection attacks.
* Django 2.1 is now fully supported.
* Fix example command to generate a CSR (had a stray '/').
* Run test-suite with template debugging enabled to catch silently skipped template errors.

******
Docker
******

* Base the :doc:`Docker image </docker>` on ``python:3-alpine`` (instead of ``python:3``), yielding a much
  smaller image (~965MB -> ~235MB).
* Run complete test-suite in a separate build stage when building the image.
* Provide ``uwsgi.ini`` for fast deployments with the uWSGI protocol.
* Add support for passing additional parameters to uWSGI using the ``DJANGO_CA_UWSGI_PARAMS`` environment
  variable.
* Create user/group with a predefined UID/GID of 9000 to allow better sharing of containers.
* Add ``/usr/share/django-ca/`` as named volume, allowing a setup where an external web server serves static
  files.
* Add documentation on how to run the container in combination with an external web server.
* Add documentation on how to run the container as a different UID/GID.
