###################
1.14.0 (2019-11-03)
###################

* ``regenerate_ocsp_keys`` now has a quiet mode and only generates keys where the CA private key is available.
* Minor changes to make the release compatible with Django 3.0a1.
* Introduce a new, more flexible format for the The format of the :ref:`CA_PROFILES <settings-ca-profiles>`
  setting. The new :doc:`/profiles` page provides more information.
* New dependency: `six <https://pypi.org/project/six/>`_, since Django 3.0 no longer includes it.
* New dependency: `asn1crypto <https://pypi.org/project/asn1crypto/>`_, since cryptography no longer depends
  on it.
* Serials are now zero-padded when output so that the last element always consists of two characters.
* More consistently output serials with colons, use a monospace font in the admin interface.
* Fix profile selection in the admin interface.
* Fix display of values from CSR in the admin interface.
* Add a copy-button next to values from the CSR to enable easy copy/paste from the CSR.
* Test suite now includes Selenium tests for all JavaScript functionality.
* ``dev.py coverage`` can now output a text summary using ``--format=text``.

******************************
Backwards incompatible changes
******************************

* Drop support for cryptography 2.3 and 2.4.
* Drop support for idna 2.7.
* Extensions now always expect a dict or a cryptography extension as a value.  Anything else was unused in
  practice.
* ``django_ca.extensions.KeyUsage``, ``django_ca.extensions.ExtendedKeyUsage`` and
  ``django_ca.extensions.TLSFeature`` now behave like an ordered set and support all operators that a set
  does.
* Running an OCSP responder using ``oscrypto``/``ocspbuilder`` is no longer supported.

**********
Extensions
**********

* ``django_ca.extensions.KeyUsage`` is now marked as critical by default.
* ``django_ca.extensions.ExtendedKeyUsage`` now supports the ``anyExtendedKeyUsage`` OID.

*******************
Deprecation notices
*******************

* This is the last release to support Python 2.7.
* This is the last release to support cryptography 2.5 and 2.6.
* This is the last release to be tested with Alpine 3.7.
* This is the last release to support updating CA private keys to the filestorage API. :command:`manage.py
  migrate_ca` will be removed in the next release.
* This will be the last release to support the ``ca_crl`` setting in
  :py:class:`~django_ca.views.CertificateRevocationListView`.
* ``Certificate.objects.init()`` has been deprecated in favor of :py:func:`Certificate.objects.create_cert()
  <django_ca.managers.CertificateManager.create_cert>`.  The old method will be removed in
  ``django-ca==1.16``.
* ``get_cert_profile_kwargs()`` was only used by ``Certificate.objects.init()`` and will  thus also be removed
  in ``django-ca==1.16``.
* The old format for ``CA_PROFILES`` will be supported until ``django-ca==1.16``. Please see previous versions
  for migration instructions.
