###################
1.20.0 (2022-01-26)
###################

.. WARNING::

   **docker-compose users:** Update from 1.18 or earlier? See :ref:`the update notes <update_119>` or you
   might loose private keys!

* Parsing and formatting of names now correctly escapes or quotes special characters.
* ``django_ca.utils.shlex_split()`` was renamed to :py:func:`~django_ca.utils.split_str`. The old name will be
  removed in ``django_ca==1.22``.
* Require a CommonName when generating a CA instead of implicitly setting the human-readable name if no
  CommonName was given.
* Add support for cryptography 36.0.0.
* Add support for Alpine 3.15.
* Make log level and message format more easily configurable with :ref:`LOG_LEVEL <settings-log-level>`,
  :ref:`LIBRARY_LOG_LEVEL <settings-library-log-level>` and :ref:`LOG_FORMAT <settings-log-format>`.
* Drop ``pytz`` as dependency (and use :py:class:`python:datetime.timezone` directly).
* Add mdlDS and mdlJWS X509 extensions for support
  `mobile Driver Licence <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mobile_driver%27s_license>`_.
* Reworked :doc:`installation instructions </install>` to link to a set of quickstart guides dedicated to each
  installation option.
* Add ``--bundle`` option to ``manage.py sign_cert`` to allow writing the whole certificate bundle.

**************
ACMEv2 support
**************

ACMEv2 support will be included and enabled by default starting with ``django-ca==1.22``. You will still have
to enable the ACMEv2 interface for each CA that should provide one. The documentation has been updated to
assume that you want to enable ACMEv2 support.

* Add support for updating an accounts email address.
* Add support for deactivating ACME accounts.
* Fix issuing certificates if ``settings.USE_TZ=True`` (fixes `issue 82
  <https://github.com/mathiasertl/django-ca/issues/82>`_).
* Fix issuing certificates for root CAs (fixes `issue 83
  <https://github.com/mathiasertl/django-ca/issues/83>`).

*************************
Docker and docker-compose
*************************

* Update Docker image to be based on Alpine 3.15.
* Update to PostgreSQL 14 when using docker-compose.
* Do not expose ports of internal daemons when using docker-compose.

******************************
Backwards incompatible changes
******************************

* Drop support for Python 3.6.
* Drop support for Django 3.1.
* Drop support for idna 2.8, 3.0 and 3.1.
* Removed the ``manage.py dump_ocsp_index`` command.
* Remove the ``--csr-format`` parameter to ``manage.py sign_cert`` (deprecated since 1.18.0).
* ``django_ca.utils.parse_csr()`` has been removed (deprecated since 1.18.0).

*******************
Deprecation notices
*******************

* This is the last release to support Django 2.2.
* This is the last release to support cryptography 3.3 and 3.4.
* This is the last release to support Alpine 3.12 and 3.13.
