###################
1.24.0 (2023-05-01)
###################

.. WARNING::

   **docker or source users that do *not* use PostgreSQL:**

   The `USE_TZ <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/ref/settings/#std-setting-USE_TZ>`_ setting was
   switched to ``True`` in the Django project. See :ref:`switch-use-tz` for update information.

* Add support for cryptography 40.0, django 4.2 and acme 2.4.0 and 2.5.0.
* Use Django's timezone support by default by enabling ``USE_TZ=True``. See :ref:`switch-use-tz` for update
  information.
* Make the default order of subjects configurable via :ref:`settings-ca-default-name-order`.
* Certificates for OCSP responders now include the "OCSPNoCheck" extension by default.
* Certificates for OCSP responders now use a commonName designating the certificate as OCSP responder as
  subject, other fields from the CAs subject are discarded.
* A profile can now ignore :ref:`settings-ca-default-subject` by setting ``subject`` to ``False``.
* Copy all extensions when using :command:`manage.py resign_cert`.
* Add support for multiple OCSP responder and CA Issuer entries when creating a certificate authority.
* Add typehints when installing as wheel.

**********************
Command-line interface
**********************

Continuing the standardization effort started in 1.23.0, some options have been replaced and/or use a
different syntax. See the :ref:`update notes <cli-1.24.0-updates>` for more detailed instructions.

* The ``--pathlen`` and ``--no-pathlen`` parameters for :command:`manage.py init_ca` were renamed to
  ``--path-length`` and ``--no-path-length``.
* The ``--key-usage`` option was changed to/split into ``--key-usage`` and ``--key-usage-non-critical``.
  ``--key-usage`` takes multiple option values instead of a single comma-separated list.
* The ``--ext-key-usage`` option was changed to/split into ``--extended-key-usage`` and
  ``--extended-key-usage-critical``. ``--extended-key-usage`` takes multiple option values instead of a single
  comma-separated list.
* The ``--tls-feature`` option was changed to/split into ``--tls-feature`` and ``--tls-feature-critical``.
  ``--tls-feature`` takes multiple option values instead of a single comma-separated list.
* Add support for specifying a custom Key Usage extension when using :command:`manage.py init_ca`.
* Add support for adding the Inhibit :spelling:word:`anyPolicy`, Policy Constraints and TLS feature extensions
  when using :command:`manage.py init_ca`.
* Add support for adding the OCSP No Check extension in when issuing certificates with :command:`manage.py
  sign_cert` or :command:`manage.py resign_cert`.
* Add support for specifying a date when the certificate was compromised when revoking a certificate with
  :command:`manage.py revoke_cert`.

******************************
Backwards incompatible changes
******************************

* The ``--ext-key-usage`` flag to :command:`manage.py sign_cert` was replaced with ``--extended-key-usage``.
* The critical flag for the Key Usage, Extended Key Usage and TLS Feature is now set with dedicated options,
  with the recommended value being the default. See above and the :ref:`update notes <cli-1.24.0-updates>` for
  details.
* The ``pre_issue_cert`` was removed. Use the :py:class:`~django_ca.signals.pre_sign_cert` signal instead.

*******************
Deprecation notices
*******************

Removed in ``django-ca==1.25.0``:

* This is the last release to support acme 2.3.0 and cryptography 38.
* Support for the ``CA_DIGEST_ALGORITHM`` setting, use ``CA_DEFAULT_SIGNATURE_HASH_ALGORITHM`` instead.
* Support for the ``CA_DEFAULT_ECC_CURVE`` setting, use ``CA_DEFAULT_ELLIPTIC_CURVE`` instead.
* Support for non-standard algorithm names (e.g. ``sha512``, use ``SHA-512`` instead).
* Support for non-standard elliptic key curve names (e.g. ``SECP384R1``, use ``secp384r1`` instead).

Removed in ``django-ca==1.26.0``:

* Support for ``cryptography==39`` and ``acme==2.4.0`` (other versions may removed depending on release time).
* Support for using ``ECC`` and ``EdDSA`` as key type. Use ``EC`` and ``Ed25519`` instead.
* The ``--pathlen`` and ``--no-pathlen`` parameters to :command:`manage.py init_ca` will be removed. Use
  ``--path-length`` and ``--no-path-length`` instead.
* Support for comma-separated lists in ``--key-usage``, ``--extended-key-usage`` and ``--tls-feature``.
  Use lists instead (e.g. ``--key-usage keyAgreement keyEncipherment`` instead of
  ``--key usagekeyAgreement,keyEncipherment``.
* Support for non-standard TLS feature names "OCSPMustStaple" and "MultipleCertStatusRequest". Use
  ``status_request`` and ``status_request_v2`` instead.
