###################
1.25.0 (2023-06-17)
###################

* Add support for cryptography 41, acme 2.6.0 and celery 5.3.
* Update the Docker image to use Alpine Linux 3.18.
* Add support for adding the Certificate Policy and Issuer Alternative Name extensions when creating
  certificate authorities or end-entity certificates via the command-line.
* Add support for adding the Extended Key Usage, Issuer Alternative Name and Subject Alternative Name
  extensions when creating certificate authorities.
* Add support for overriding the Authority Information Access, CRL Distribution Points and OCSP No Check
  extensions when creating end-entity certificates via the command-line.
* Add support for string formatting operations on URL paths (see :ref:`cli_cas_string_formatting`) in
  Authority Information Access and CRL Distribution Point extensions.
* Add a temporary pip extra ``psycopg3`` for using Psycopg 3. This extra will be removed once support for
  Django 3.2 is removed. Psycopg 3 will be required in the ``postgres`` extra from then on.
* Fix import parameters to :command:`manage.py import_ca`.
* Further standardizing the command-line interface, some options for :command:`manage.py init_ca` and
  :command:`manage.py edit_ca` are renamed. See the :ref:`update notes <update_124>` for more information.

******************************
Backwards incompatible changes
******************************

* Drop support for acme 2.3.0 and cryptography 38.
* The ``CA_DIGEST_ALGORITHM`` setting was removed. Use :ref:`settings-ca-default-signature-hash-algorithm`
  instead.
* The ``CA_DEFAULT_ECC_CURVE`` setting was removed. Use :ref:`settings-ca-default-elliptic-curve` instead.
* Support for non-standard algorithm names for the ``--algorithm`` argument was removed.
* Support for non-standard elliptic curve names via the ``--elliptic-curve`` argument was removed.
* Support for custom signature hash algorithms in CRLs was removed. The algorithm used for signing the
  certificate authority is now always used.
* The old alias ``--ecc-curve`` for ``--elliptic-curve`` was removed.

*******************
Deprecation notices
*******************

* This is the last release to support cryptography 37 and cryptography 39.
* This is the last release to support acme 2.4.0.
* This is the last release to support celery 5.1.
* Support for non-standard algorithm names in profile settings will be removed in django-ca 1.27.0.
* Several options :command:`manage.py init_ca` and :command:`manage.py edit_ca` are renamed, old options
  will be removed in django-ca 1.27.0. See the :ref:`update notes <update_124>` for more information.
