###################
1.28.0 (2024-03-30)
###################

.. NOTE::

   * django-ca 1.27.0 introduced a major change in how subjects are parsed on the command-line. Please see
     :ref:`update_126_rfc4514_subjects` for migration information.
   * **Docker Compose users:** The PostgreSQL version was updated to PostgreSQL 16. See
     :ref:`postgresql_update` for update instructions.

* Add support for ``Django~=5.0.0``, ``cryptography~=42.0``, ``acme==2.8.0`` and ``acme==2.9.0``.
* **Docker Compose:** The PostgreSQL version was updated to PostgreSQL 16. See :ref:`postgresql_update` for
  update instructions.
* ``pydantic>=2.5`` is now a required dependency.
* Preparations for support for using Hardware Security Modules, "Key backend support" below.
* The ``CA_FILE_STORAGE`` and ``CA_FILE_STORAGE_KWARGS`` settings are deprecated in favor of
  :ref:`settings-ca-key-backends` and will be removed in ``django-ca==2.0``. Installations :doc:`as Django
  app </quickstart_as_app>` must add a ``"django-ca"`` storage alias in their configuration.
* The :ref:`settings-ca-passwords` setting is now consistently used whenever required.
* Private keys (for CAs and OCSP responder certificates) are now stored as DER keys to improve loading speed.
* The admin interface now presents lists of general names (e.g. in the Subject Alternative Name extension) as
  a list of order-able key/value pairs when adding certificates.
* Extensions added by the CA when signing new certificates can now have the same complexity as when giving
  the extensions directly when signing the certificate.

  * The ``--sign-ca-issuer``, ``--sign-ocsp-responder`` and ``--sign-issuer-alternative-name`` options to
    :command:`manage.py sign_cert` etc. now support any general name type and giving multiple general names.
  * The CRL Distribution Points extension added to certificates may now be marked as critical via
    ``--sign-crl-distribution-points-critical``.
  * When editing a CA, the admin interface presents these fields in the same way as when signing a
    certificate.

* Remove the option to add the Common Name to the Subject Alternative Name extension, as the result is
  unpredictable:

  * The :command:`manage.py sign_cert` ``--cn-in-san`` option was removed.
  * The checkbox in the admin interface was removed.
  * The profile option no longer has any effect and issues a warning.

* Add :doc:`Pydantic models for cryptography classes </python/pydantic>`. These are required for the REST API,
  but are also used internally for various places where serialization of objects is required.
* Support for configuring absolute paths for OCSP responder certificates in manual OCSP views was removed.
  This was a left over, it was deprecated and issued a warning since 2019.
* Fixed bash shortcut if installing from source to allow spaces (fixes `issue 123
  <https://github.com/mathiasertl/django-ca/issues/123>`_).

*******************
Key backend support
*******************

This version adds support for "key backends", allowing you to store and use private keys in different places,
for example the file system or a Hardware Security Module (HSM). At present, the only backend available uses
the Django file storage API, usually storing private keys on the file system.

Future versions will add support for other ways to handle private keys, including HSMs.

****************
REST API changes
****************

.. NOTE:: The :doc:`/rest_api` is still experimental and endpoints will change without notice.

The update to django-ninja 1.1 and Pydantic brings a general update on how extensions are represented. Any
code using the API will have to be updated.

* Update to ``django-ninja==1.1.0``, including a full migration to Pydantic 2.
* The format of extensions now includes a ``type`` parameter indicating the extension type.
* Extension objects are now more in line with `RFC 5280`_ and no longer use arbitrary abbreviations.
* Extensions are now represented as a list.
* General names are now represented as an object, instead of string that has to be parsed.

******************************
Backwards incompatible changes
******************************

* **Docker Compose:** The PostgreSQL version was updated to PostgreSQL 16. See :ref:`postgresql_update` for
  update instructions.
* Drop support for ``Django~=3.2``, ``acme==1.26.0`` and ``Alpine~=3.16``.
* ``django_ca.extensions.serialize_extension()`` is removed and replaced by :doc:`Pydantic serialization
  </python/pydantic>`.

*******************
Deprecation notices
*******************

* This is the last release to support Python 3.8, ``cryptography~=41.0``, ``acme~=2.7.0`` and ``acme~=2.8.0``.
* The default subject format will switch from OpenSSL-style to RFC 4514 in django-ca 2.0.
* Support for OpenSSL-style subjects will be removed in django-ca 2.2.
* ``django_ca.extensions.parse_extension()`` is deprecated and should not longer be used. Use Pydantic models
  instead.
* The :command:`manage.py convert_timestamps` command will be removed in ``django-ca==2.0``.
* The ``CA_FILE_STORAGE`` and ``CA_FILE_STORAGE_KWARGS`` settings are deprecated in favor of
  :ref:`settings-ca-key-backends` and will be removed in ``django-ca==2.0``.
