###################
1.29.0 (2024-06-30)
###################

* Fix the `encoding` GET parameter when retrieving certificate revocation lists.
* Configuring a password in a certificate revocation list view is deprecated. Use the ``CA_PASSWORDS`` setting
  instead. The feature will be removed in 2.1.0.

**********************
Command-line utilities
**********************

* :command:`manage.py sign_cert` and :command:`manage.py resign_cert` now verify that the certificate
  authority used for signing has expired, is revoked or disabled.
* :command:`manage.py init_ca` now use the new :ref:`settings-ca-default-private-key-type` setting as default
  private key type.

********
Profiles
********

* Extensions in profiles now use the same syntax as in the API. This change only affects extensions usually
  not set via profiles, such as the CRL Distribution Points or Authority Information Access extensions.
  See :ref:`profiles-extensions` for the new format. Support for the old format will be removed in 2.0.0.
* **BACKWARDS INCOMPATIBLE:** Removed support for the ``cn_in_san`` parameter in profiles (deprecated since
  1.28.0).

********
Settings
********

django-ca specific settings where moved to a Pydantic model, providing better and more consistent setting
validation on start up and more type safety at runtime.

* :ref:`settings-ca-default-subject` and subjects in profiles now support the same (more verbose) format
  as exposed via the API. Support for the old format will be removed in 2.2.0.
* :ref:`settings-ca-default-expires`, the default expiry time for certificates created *without* ACMEv2, now
  has a default value of 365 days. The minimum value is now also one day (instead of just a positive value).
* Consistently parse serials in :ref:`settings-ca-default-ca` :ref:`settings-ca-passwords` and
  :ref:`settings-ca-crl-profiles` overrides so that colons (``":"``) and leading zeros (as added by command
  line tools to beautify serials) are stripped.

Many settings now have more strictly enforced limits, meant to catch configuration mistakes earlier:

* :ref:`settings-ca-min-key-size` and :ref:`settings-ca-default-key-size` now enforce a minimum key size of
  1024 bit. Cryptography already enforces this limit, so this just catches a mistake earlier.
* :ref:`CA_ACME_ORDER_VALIDITY` now has a minimum value of 60 seconds and a maximum value of one day.
* :ref:`CA_ACME_DEFAULT_CERT_VALIDITY` and :ref:`CA_ACME_MAX_CERT_VALIDITY` now have a minimum value of
  one day and a maximum value of 365 days.
* :ref:`settings-ca-ocsp-responder-certificate-renewal` now has a minimum value of two hours (the task to
  renew certificates runs every hour, so any lower value will cause problems).

************
Docker image
************

* Docker image is now based on Alpine 3.20.

************
Dependencies
************

* Add support for Alpine 3.20 and Ubuntu 24.04.
* Add support for ``acme~=2.10.0``, ``acme~=2.11.0`` and ``pydantic~=2.7.0``.
* **BACKWARDS INCOMPATIBLE:** Dropped support for Python 3.8.
* **BACKWARDS INCOMPATIBLE:** Dropped support for ``cryptography~=41.0``, ``acme~=2.7.0`` and ``acme~=2.8.0``.
* Increased minimum required versions to ``dnspython>=2.5``, ``hiredis>=2.1.0``, ``idna>=3.4``,
  ``psycopg>=3.1`` and ``redis>=4.6``.

**********
Python API
**********

* **BACKWARDS INCOMPATIBLE:** Removed ``django_ca.utils.parse_hash_algorithm()``, deprecated since
  1.25.0. Use :py:attr:`standard hash algorithm names <django_ca.typehints.HashAlgorithms>` instead.
* **BACKWARDS INCOMPATIBLE:** Removed ``django_ca.utils.format_name()``, deprecated since 1.27.0. Use RFC
  4514-formatted subjects instead.
* **BACKWARDS INCOMPATIBLE:** Removed ``django_ca.utils.is_power2()``, use
  ``django_ca.pydantic.validators.is_power_two_validator`` instead.
* **BACKWARDS INCOMPATIBLE:** Removed the `password` parameter to
  :py:func:`~django_ca.models.CertificateAuthority.sign`. It was a left-over and only used in the signal.
* :py:func:`django_ca.managers.CertificateAuthorityManager.init`:

  * **BACKWARDS INCOMPATIBLE:** The `expires` parameter is now mandatory, and should be a timezone-aware
    datetime. Support for passing ``int`` or ``timedelta`` will be removed in 2.0.0.
  * The `extensions` parameter no longer accepts extensions that are not valid for certificates.

* :py:func:`django_ca.managers.CertificateManager.create_cert`:

  * **BACKWARDS INCOMPATIBLE:** The `expires` parameter is now mandatory, and should be a ``timedelta`` or
    timezone-aware datetime. Support for passing an ``int`` will be removed in 2.0.0.
  * The `extensions` parameter no longer accepts extensions that are not valid for end entity certificates.

* All Pydantic models are now exported under ``django_ca.pydantic``.
* Add literal typehints for extension keys under :py:attr:`~django_ca.typehints.ExtensionKeys` and
  :py:attr:`~django_ca.typehints.CertificateExtensionKeys` to improve type hinting.
* Add :py:attr:`~django_ca.constants.CERTIFICATE_EXTENSION_KEYS`, a subset of
  :py:attr:`~django_ca.constants.EXTENSION_KEYS`, for extensions all extensions that may occur in
  end-entity certificates.

*************
Documentation
*************

* A detailed deprecation timeline is now available under :doc:`/deprecation`.
* Pydantic models wrapping cryptography classes are now documented using specialized extension, showing valid
  values as Pydantic model and JSON, as well as the equivalent value as cryptography class.

*******
Signals
*******

* :py:attr:`django_ca.signals.pre_sign_cert` now receives `key_backend_options` instead of `password`.

*******************
Deprecation notices
*******************

Please see the :doc:`deprecation timeline </deprecation>` for a detailed timeline of deprecated features.

* This is the last release to support ``celery~=5.3``, ``pydantic~=2.5.0``, ``acme~=2.9.0`` and
  ``acme~=2.10.0``.
* This will be the last release to support Alpine 3.17.
* Support for the old extension format in profiles will be removed in 2.0.0.
* Support for the old subject format in :ref:`settings-ca-default-subject` and subjects in profiles will be
  removed in 2.2.0.
* ``django_ca.extensions.parse_extension()`` will be removed in 2.0.0. Use Pydantic models instead.
* Configuring passwords in certificate revocation list views will be removed in 2.1.0. Use the
  ``CA_PASSWORDS`` setting instead.
